INSTRUCTIONS FOR FINDING AND ENTERING AVIAN DIET DATA
=====================================================

1) Use the "NA_avian_diet_refs.txt" file to identify potential studies with diet
information for the species you are working on.

2) Find the study by pasting the title into Google Scholar or Web of Science.

3) Search for tabular, quantitative diet data. In some cases, it's possible
that quantitative diet data is described in the text and a table is not provided
but this should be rare.

4) Make sure you understand which bird species is being studied. Many species
names (both common names and scientific names) have changed over time, so older
studies in particular may be using one that is out of date. Paste the scientific
name into the search bar at http://avibase.bsc-eoc.org. If a "Search results"
page comes up, click on the first link for which "Status" is blank and for
which there is no additional subspecies name listed. This should bring you to an
information page for this taxon. Click on the "taxon grid" link across the top,
and then on "American Ornithologists' Union - versions 1 to 7". In general, we
will be using the scientific and common names according to the most recent
edition (currently the 7th) of the American Ornithologists' Union taxonomy.

Try this for the following species and see what happens: 

*Dendroica townsendi*. Note that this search goes straight to the taxon page. 
The taxon grid is quite straightforward, and shows that there is a single 
species concept which has changed names over time from *Dendroica townsendi* to 
*Setophaga townsendi*. 

*Empidonax difficilis*. This one is more complicated, with many more species 
concepts listed. Many of these are different subspecies which we can ignore 
(e.g., the bottom two rows, and 3 of the middle rows). Otherwise, what this
taxon grid shows is that up through the 6th edition (1983), there was a single
species concept referred to as *Empidonax difficilis* with the common name 
Western Flycatcher. However, by 1998 and the publication of the 7th edition,
taxonomists had split this species into two separate species. One of them
retained *Empidonax difficilis* as its scientific name, but the common name
changed to "Pacific-slope Flycatcher". The other took on the scientific name
*Empidonax occidentalis* and the common name "Cordilleran Flycatcher".